CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Guidelines for contributing

Thank you for your interest in contributing to AWS documentation! We greatly value feedback and contributions from our community.

Please read through this document before you submit any pull requests or issues. It will help us work together more effectively.

## What to expect when you contribute

When you submit a pull request, our team is notified and will respond as quickly as we can. We'll do our best to work with you to ensure that your pull request adheres to our style and standards. If we merge your pull request, we might make additional edits later for style or clarity.

The AWS documentation source files on GitHub aren't published directly to the official documentation website. If we merge your pull request, we'll publish your changes to the documentation website as soon as we can, but they won't appear immediately or automatically.

We look forward to receiving your pull requests for:

* New content you'd like to contribute (such as new code samples or tutorials)
* Inaccuracies in the content
* Information gaps in the content that need more detail to be complete
* Typos or grammatical errors
* Suggested rewrites that improve clarity and reduce confusion

**Note:** We all write differently, and you might not like how we've written or organized something currently. We want that feedback. But please be sure that your request for a rewrite is supported by the previous criteria. If it isn't, we might decline to merge it.

## How to contribute

To contribute, send us a pull request. For small changes, such as fixing a typo or adding a link, you can use the [GitHub Edit Button](https://blog.github.com/2011-04-26-forking-with-the-edit-button/). For larger changes:

1. [Fork the repository](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/).
2. In your fork, make your change in a branch that's based on this repo's **master** branch.
3. Commit the change to your fork, using a clear and descriptive commit message.
4. [Create a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork/), answering any questions in the pull request form.

Before you send us a pull request, please be sure that:

1. You're working from the latest source on the **master** branch.
2. You check [existing open](https://github.com/awsdocs/aws-eks-best-practices/pulls), and [recently closed](https://github.com/awsdocs/aws-eks-best-practices/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed), pull requests to be sure that someone else hasn't already addressed the problem.
3. You [create an issue](https://github.com/awsdocs/aws-eks-best-practices/issues/new) before working on a contribution that will take a significant amount of your time.

For contributions that will take a significant amount of time, [open a new issue](https://github.com/awsdocs/aws-eks-best-practices/issues/new) to pitch your idea before you get started. Explain the problem and describe the content you want to see added to the documentation. Let us know if you'll write it yourself or if you'd like us to help. We'll discuss your proposal with you and let you know whether we're likely to accept it. We don't want you to spend a lot of time on a contribution that might be outside the scope of the documentation or that's already in the works.

## Finding contributions to work on

If you'd like to contribute, but don't have a project in mind, look at the [open issues](https://github.com/awsdocs/aws-eks-best-practices/issues) in this repository for some ideas. Any issues with the [help wanted](https://github.com/awsdocs/aws-eks-best-practices/labels/help%20wanted) or [enhancement](https://github.com/awsdocs/aws-eks-best-practices/labels/enhancement) labels are a great place to start.

In addition to written content, we really appreciate new examples and code samples for our documentation, such as examples for different platforms or environments, and code samples in additional languages.

## Code of conduct

This project has adopted the [Amazon Open Source Code of Conduct](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct). For more information, see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct-faq) or contact [opensource-codeofconduct@amazon.com](mailto:opensource-codeofconduct@amazon.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## Security issue notifications

If you discover a potential security issue, please notify AWS Security via our [vulnerability reporting page](http://aws.amazon.com/security/vulnerability-reporting/). Please do **not** create a public issue on GitHub.

## Licensing

See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/awsdocs/aws-eks-best-practices/blob/master/LICENSE) file for this project's licensing. We will ask you to confirm the licensing of your contribution. We may ask you to sign a [Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contributor_License_Agreement) for larger changes.

Commit message:

update: add intro and audience to contrib guide

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Guidelines for contributing

We're so excited to have you join us and help make the Amazon EKS Best Practices project even better! Whether you're adding new content, code samples, or improving what's already here, there are just a few guidelines to follow. 

## Goal and target audience
It's important to note that our [open-source software (OSS) community](https://aws.amazon.com/what-is/open-source/) values our content most because it's openly governed and vendor-neutral in its guidance. Unless a vendor's product or service has an open source component and/or is widely recognized as a standard, we limit contributions to open source guidance and best practices, exclusively.

## What to expect when you contribute

When you submit a pull request, our team is notified and will respond as quickly as we can. We'll do our best to work with you to ensure that your pull request adheres to our style and standards. If we merge your pull request, we might make additional edits later for style or clarity.

The AWS documentation source files on GitHub aren't published directly to the official documentation website. If we merge your pull request, we'll publish your changes to the documentation website as soon as we can, but they won't appear immediately or automatically.

We look forward to receiving your pull requests for:

* New content you'd like to contribute (such as new code samples or tutorials)
* Inaccuracies in the content
* Information gaps in the content that need more detail to be complete
* Typos or grammatical errors
* Suggested rewrites that improve clarity and reduce confusion

**Note:** We all write differently, and you might not like how we've written or organized something currently. We want that feedback. But please be sure that your request for a rewrite is supported by the previous criteria. If it isn't, we might decline to merge it.

## How to contribute

To contribute, send us a pull request. For small changes, such as fixing a typo or adding a link, you can use the [GitHub Edit Button](https://blog.github.com/2011-04-26-forking-with-the-edit-button/). For larger changes:

1. [Fork the repository](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/).
2. In your fork, make your change in a branch that's based on this repo's **master** branch.
3. Commit the change to your fork, using a clear and descriptive commit message.
4. [Create a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork/), answering any questions in the pull request form.

Before you send us a pull request, please be sure that:

1. You're working from the latest source on the **master** branch.
2. You check [existing open](https://github.com/awsdocs/aws-eks-best-practices/pulls), and [recently closed](https://github.com/awsdocs/aws-eks-best-practices/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed), pull requests to be sure that someone else hasn't already addressed the problem.
3. You [create an issue](https://github.com/awsdocs/aws-eks-best-practices/issues/new) before working on a contribution that will take a significant amount of your time.

For contributions that will take a significant amount of time, [open a new issue](https://github.com/awsdocs/aws-eks-best-practices/issues/new) to pitch your idea before you get started. Explain the problem and describe the content you want to see added to the documentation. Let us know if you'll write it yourself or if you'd like us to help. We'll discuss your proposal with you and let you know whether we're likely to accept it. We don't want you to spend a lot of time on a contribution that might be outside the scope of the documentation or that's already in the works.

## Finding contributions to work on

If you'd like to contribute, but don't have a project in mind, look at the [open issues](https://github.com/awsdocs/aws-eks-best-practices/issues) in this repository for some ideas. Any issues with the [help wanted](https://github.com/awsdocs/aws-eks-best-practices/labels/help%20wanted) or [enhancement](https://github.com/awsdocs/aws-eks-best-practices/labels/enhancement) labels are a great place to start.

In addition to written content, we really appreciate new examples and code samples for our documentation, such as examples for different platforms or environments, and code samples in additional languages.

## Code of conduct

This project has adopted the [Amazon Open Source Code of Conduct](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct). For more information, see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct-faq) or contact [opensource-codeofconduct@amazon.com](mailto:opensource-codeofconduct@amazon.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## Security issue notifications

If you discover a potential security issue, please notify AWS Security via our [vulnerability reporting page](http://aws.amazon.com/security/vulnerability-reporting/). Please do **not** create a public issue on GitHub.

## Licensing

See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/awsdocs/aws-eks-best-practices/blob/master/LICENSE) file for this project's licensing. We will ask you to confirm the licensing of your contribution. We may ask you to sign a [Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contributor_License_Agreement) for larger changes.
