//!!NODE_ROOT <section>
[."topic"]
[[load-balancing,load-balancing.title]]
= Load Balancing
:info_titleabbrev: Load Balancers
:info_doctype: section
:imagesdir: images/



Load Balancers receive incoming traffic and distribute it across targets
of the intended application hosted in an EKS Cluster. This improves the
resilience of the application. When deployed in an EKS Cluster the
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/aws-load-balancer-controller.html[AWS
Load Balancer controller] will create and manage AWS Elastic Load
Balancers for that cluster. When a Kubernetes Service of type
LoadBalancer is created, the AWS Load Balancer controller creates a
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/network-load-balancing.html[Network
Load Balancer (NLB)] which load balances received traffic at Layer 4 of
the OSI model. While when a Kubernetes Ingress object is created, the
AWS Load Balancer Controller creates an
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/alb-ingress.html[Application
Load Balancer (ALB)] which load balances traffic at Layer 7 of the OSI
model.

== Recommendations

=== Choosing Load Balancer Type

The AWS Elastic Load Balancing portfolio supports the following load
balancers: Application Load Balancers (ALB), Network Load Balancers
(NLB), Gateway Load Balancers (GWLB), and Classic Load Balancers (CLB).
This best practices section will focus on the ALB and NLB which are the
two which are most relevant for EKS Clusters.

The main consideration in choosing the type of load balancer is the
workload requirements.

For more detailed information and as a reference for all AWS Load
balancers, see
https://aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/features/#Product_comparisons[Product
Comparisons]

==== Choose the Application Load Balancer (ALB) if your workload is HTTP/HTTPS

If a workloads requires load balancing at Layer 7 of the OSI Model, the
AWS Load Balancer Controller can be used to provision an ALB; we cover
the provisioning in the following section. The ALB is controlled and
configured by the Ingress resource mentioned earlier and routes HTTP or
HTTPS traffic to different Pods within the cluster. The ALB provides
customers with the flexibility to change the application traffic routing
algorithm; the default routing algorithm is round robin with the least
outstanding requests routing algorithm also an alternative.

==== Choose the Network Load Balancer (NLB) if your workload is TCP, or if your workload requires Source IP Preservation of Clients

A Network Load Balancer functions at the fourth layer (Transport) of the
Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model. It is suited for TCP & UDP
based workloads. Network Load Balancer also by default preserves the
Source IP of address of the clients when presenting the traffic to the
pod.

==== Choose the Network Load Balancer (NLB) if your workload cannot utilize DNS

Another key reason to use the NLB is if your clients cannot utilize DNS.
In this case, the NLB may be a better fit for your workload as the IPs
on a Network Load Balancer are static. While clients are recommended to
use DNS when resolving Domain Names to IP Addresses when connecting to
Load Balancers, if a client’s application doesn’t support DNS resolution
and only accepts hard-coded IPs then an NLB is a better fit as the IPs
are static and remain same for the life of the NLB.

=== Provisioning Load Balancers

After determining the Load Balancer best suited for your workloads,
customers have a number of options for provisioning a load balancer.

==== Provision Load Balancers by deploying the AWS Load Balancer Controller

There are two key methods of provisioning load balancers within an EKS
Cluster.

* Leveraging the AWS Cloud Provider Load balancer Controller (legacy)
* Leveraging the AWS Load Balancer Controller (recommended)

By default, Kubernetes Service resources of type LoadBalancer get
reconciled by the Kubernetes Service Controller that is built into the
CloudProvider component of the kube-controller-manager or the
cloud-controller-manager (also known as the in-tree controller).

The configuration of the provisioned load balancer is controlled by
annotations that are added to the manifest for the Service or Ingress
object and are different when using the AWS Load Balancer Controller
than they are when using the AWS cloud provider load balancer
controller.

The AWS Cloud Provider Load balancer Controller is legacy and is
currently only receiving critical bug fixes. When you create a
Kubernetes Service of type LoadBalancer, the AWS cloud provider load
balancer controller creates AWS Classic Load Balancers by default, but
can also create AWS Network Load Balancers with the correct annotation.

The AWS Load Balancer Controller (LBC) has to be installed in the EKS
clusters and provisions AWS load balancers that point to cluster Service
or Ingress resources.

In order for the LBC to manage the reconciliation of Kubernetes Service
resources of type LoadBalancer, you need to offload the reconciliation
from the in-tree controller to the LBC, explicitly. With
LoadBalancerClassWith
`+service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-type+` annotation

=== Choosing Load Balancer Target-Type

==== Register Pods as targets using IP Target-Type

An AWS Elastic Load Balancer: Network & Application, sends received
traffic to registered targets in a target group. For an EKS Cluster
there are 2 types of targets you can register in the target group:
Instance & IP, which target type is used has implications on what gets
registered and how traffic is routed from the Load Balancer to the pod.
By default the AWS Load Balancer controller will register targets using
'`Instance`' type and this target will be the Worker Node’s IP and
NodePort, implication of this include:

* Traffic from the Load Balancer will be forwarded to the Worker Node on
the NodePort, this gets processed by iptables rules (configured by
kube-proxy running on the node), and gets forwarded to the Service on
its ClusterIP (still on the node), finally the Service randomly selects
a pod registered to it and forwards the traffic to it. This flow
involves multiple hops and extra latency can be incurred especially
because the Service will sometimes select a pod running on another
worker node which might also be in another AZ.
* Because the Load Balancer registers the Worker Node as its target this
means its health check which gets sent to the target will not be
directly received by the pod but by the Worker Node on its NodePort and
health check traffic will follow the same path described above.
* Monitoring and Troubleshooting is more complex since traffic forwarded
by the Load Balancer isn’t directly sent to the pods and you’d have to
carefully correlate the packet received on the Worker Node to to the
Service ClusterIP and eventually the pod to have full end-to-end
visibility into the packet’s path for proper troubleshooting.

.targettype_instance.png
image::lb_target_type_instance.png[targettype_instance.png]

By contrast if you configure the target type as '`IP`' as we recommend
the implication will be the following:

* Traffic from the Load Balancer will be forwarded directly to the pod,
this simplifies the network path as it bypasses the previous extra hops
of Worker Nodes and Service Cluster IP, it reduces latency that would
otherwise have been incurred if the Service forwarded traffic to a pod
in another AZ and lastly it removes the iptables rules overhead
processing on the Worker Nodes.
* The Load Balancer’s health check is directly received and responded to
by the pod, this means the target status '`healthy`' or '`unhealthy`'
are a direct representation of the pod’s health status.
* Monitoring and Troubleshooting is easier and any tool used that
captures packet IP address will directly reveal the bi-directional
traffic between the Load Balancer and the pod in its source and
destination fields.

.targettype_ip.png
image::lb_target_type_ip.png[targettype_ip.png]

To create an AWS Elastic Load Balancing that uses IP Targets you add:

* `+alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/target-type: ip+` annotation to your
Ingress’ manifest when configuring your Kubernetes Ingress (Application
Load Balancer)
* `+service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-nlb-target-type: ip+`
annotation to your Service’s Manifest when configuring your Kubernetes
Service of type LoadBalancer (Network Load Balancer).

=== Availability and Pod Lifecycle

During an application upgrade you must make sure that your application
is always available to process requests so users do not experience any
downtime. One common challenge in this scenario is syncing the
availability status of your workloads between the Kubernetes layer, and
the infrastructure, for instance external Load Balancers. The next few
sections highlight the best practices to address such scenarios.

Note : The explanations below are based on the
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#endpointslices[EndpointSlices]
as it is the recommended replacement for the
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#endpoints[Endpoints]
in Kubernetes. The differences between the two are negligible in the
context of the scenarios covered below. AWS Load Balancer Controller by
default consumes Endpoints, you can enable EndpointSlices by enabling
the
https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller/blob/main/docs/deploy/configurations.md#controller-command-line-flags[enable-endpoint-sliceflag]
on the controller.

==== Use health checks

Kubernetes by default runs the
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#container-states[process
health check] where the kubelet process on the node verifies whether or
not the main process of the container is running. If not then by default
it restarts that container. However you can also configure
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#types-of-probe[Kubernetes
probes] to identify when a container process is running but in a
deadlock state, or whether an application has started successfully or
not. Probes can be based on exec, grpc, httpGet and tcpSocket
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#probe-check-methods[mechanisms].
Based on the type and result of the probe the container can be
restarted.

Please see the link:lb-pod-create[Pod Creation] in the Appendix section
below to revisit the sequence of events in Pod creation process.

==== Use readiness probes

By default when
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#pod-readiness-status[all
the containers within a Pod are running] the
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#pod-conditions[Pod
condition] is considered to be "`Ready`". However the application may
still not be able to process client requests. For example the
application may need to pull some data or configuration from an external
resource to be able to process requests. In such a state you would
neither want to kill the application nor forward any requests to it.
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-startup-probes/#define-readiness-probes[Readiness
probe] enables you to make sure that the Pod is not considered to be
"`Ready`", meaning that it will not be added to the EndpointSlice
object, until the
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#probe-outcome[probe
result] is `+success+`. On the other hand if the probe fails further
down the line then the Pod is removed from the EndpointSlice object. You
can configure a readiness probe in the Pod manifest for each container.
`+kubelet+` process on each node runs the readiness probe against the
containers on that node.

==== Utilize Pod readiness gates

One aspect of the readiness probe is the fact that there is no external
feedback/influence mechanism in it, kubelet process on the node executes
the probe and defines the state of the probe. This does not have any
impact on the requests between microservices themselves in the
Kubernetes layer (east west traffic) since the EndpointSlice Controller
keeps the list of endpoints (Pods) always up to date. Why and when would
you need an external mechanism then ?

When you expose your applications using Kubernetes Service type of Load
Balancer or Kubernetes Ingress (for north - south traffic) then the list
of Pod IPs for the respective Kubernetes Service must be propagated to
the external infrastructure load balancer so that the load balancer also
has an up to date list targets.
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/aws-load-balancer-controller.html[AWS
Load Balancer Controller] bridges the gap here. When you use AWS Load
Balancer Controller and leverage `+target group: IP+` , just like
`+kube-proxy+` the AWS Load Balancer Controller also receives an update
(via `+watch+`) and then it communicates with the
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/APIReference/Welcome.html[ELB
API] to configure and start registering the Pod IP as a target on the
ELB.

When you perform a rolling update of a Deployment, new Pods get created,
and as soon as a new Pod’s condition is "`Ready`" an old/existing Pod
gets terminated. During this process, the Kubernetes EndpointSlice
object is updated faster than the time it takes the ELB to register the
new Pods as targets, see
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/application/target-group-register-targets.html[target
registration]. For a brief time you could have a state mismatch between
the Kubernetes layer and the infrastructure layer where client requests
could be dropped. During this period within the Kubernetes layer new
Pods would be ready to process requests but from ELB point of view they
are not.

https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#pod-readiness-gate[Pod
Readiness Gates] enables you to define additional requirements that must
be met before the Pod condition is considered to be "`Ready`". In the
case of AWS ELB, the AWS Load Balancer Controller monitors the status of
the target (the Pod) on the AWS ELB and once the target registration
completes and its status turns "`Healthy`" then
https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/aws-load-balancer-controller/v2.4/deploy/pod_readiness_gate/[the
controller updates the Pod’ s condition to "`Ready`"]. With this
approach you influence the Pod condition based on the state of the
external network, which is the target status on the AWS ELB. Pod
Readiness Gates is crucial in rolling update scenarios as it enables you
to prevent the rolling update of a deployment from terminating old pods
until the newly created Pods target status turn "`Healthy`" on the AWS
ELB.

==== Gracefully shutdown applications

Your application should respond to a SIGTERM signal by starting its
graceful shutdown so that clients do not experience any downtime. What
this means is your application should run cleanup procedures such as
saving data, closing file descriptors, closing database connections,
completing in-flight requests gracefully and exit in a timely manner to
fulfill the Pod termination request. You should set the grace period to
long enough so that cleanup can finish. To learn how to respond to the
SIGTERM signal you can refer to the resources of the respective
programming language that you use for your application.

If your application is unable to shutdown gracefully upon receipt of a
SIGTERM signal or if it
https://petermalmgren.com/signal-handling-docker/[ignores/does not
receive the signal], then you can instead leverage
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/container-lifecycle-hooks/#container-hooks[PreStop
hook] to initiate a graceful shutdown of the application. Prestop hook
is executed immediately before the SIGTERM signal is sent and it can
perform arbitrary operations without having to implement those
operations in the application code itself.

The overall sequence of events is shown in the diagram below. Note:
regardless of the result of graceful shutdown procedure of the
application, or the result of the PreStop hook, the application
containers are eventually terminated at the end of the grace period via
SIGKILL.

.podterminationlifecycle.png
image::lb_podterminationlifecycle.png[podterminationlifecycle.png]

Please see the link:lb-pod-delete[Pod Deletion] in the Appendix section
below to revisit the sequence of events in Pod deletion process.

==== Gracefully handle the client requests

The sequence of events in Pod deletion is different than Pod creation.
When a Pod is created `+kubelet+` updates the Pod IP in Kubernetes API
and only then the EndpointSlice object is updated. On the other hand
when a Pod is being terminated Kubernetes API notifies both the kubelet
and EndpointSlice controller at the same time. Carefully inspect the
following diagram which shows the sequence of events.

.statepropagation.png
image::lb_statepropagation.png[statepropagation.png]

The way the state propagates all the way from API server down to the
iptables rules on the nodes explained above creates an interesting race
condition. Because there is a high chance that the container receives
the SIGKILL signal much earlier than the kube-proxy on each node updates
the local iptables rules. In such an event two scenarios worth
mentioning are :

* If your application immediately and bluntly drops the in-flight
requests and connections upon receipt of SIGTERM which means the clients
would see 50x errors all over the place.
* Even if your application ensures that all in-flight requests and
connections are processed completely upon receipt of SIGTERM, during the
grace period, new client requests would still be sent to the application
container because iptables rules may still not be updated yet. Until the
cleanup procedure closes the server socket on the container those new
requests will result in new connections. When the grace period ends
those connections, which are established after the SIGTERM, at that time
are dropped unconditionally since SIGKILL is sent.

Setting the grace period in Pod spec long enough may address this
challenge but depending on the propagation delay and the number of
actual client requests it is hard to anticipate the time it takes for
the application to close out the connections gracefully. Hence the not
so perfect but most feasible approach here is to use a PreStop hook to
delay the SIGTERM signal until the iptables rules are updated to make
sure that no new client requests are sent to the application rather,
only existing connections carry on. PreStop hook can be a simple Exec
handler such as `+sleep 10+`.

The behavior and the recommendation mentioned above would be equally
applicable when you expose your applications using Kubernetes Service
type of Load Balancer or Kubernetes Ingress (for north - south traffic)
using AWS Load Balancer Controller and leverage `+target group: IP+` .
Because just like `+kube-proxy+` the AWS Load Balancer Controller also
receives an update (via watch) on the EndpointSlice object and then it
communicates with the
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/APIReference/Welcome.html[ELB
API] to start deregistering the Pod IP from the ELB. However depending
on the load on Kubernetes API or the ELB API this can also take time and
the SIGTERM may have already been sent to the application long ago. Once
the ELB starts deregistering the target it stops sending requests to
that target so the application will not receive any new requests and the
ELB also starts a
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/application/load-balancer-target-groups.html#deregistration-delay[Deregistration
delay] which is 300 seconds by default. During the deregistration
process the target is `+draining+` where basically the ELB waits for the
in-flight requests/existing connections to that target to drain. Once
the deregistration delay expires then the target is unused and any
in-flight requests to that target is forcibly dropped.

==== Use Pod disruption budget

Configure a
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/disruptions/#pod-disruption-budgets[Pod
Disruption Budget] (PDB) for your applications. PDBlimits the number of
Pods of a replicated application that are down simultaneously from
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/disruptions/#voluntary-and-involuntary-disruptions[voluntary
disruptions]. It ensures that a minimum number or percentage of pods
remain available in a StatefulSet or Deployment. For example, a
quorum-based application needs to ensure that the number of replicas
running is never brought below the number needed for a quorum. Or a web
front end might ensure that the number of replicas serving load never
falls below a certain percentage of the total. PDB will protect the
application against actions such as nodes being drained, or new versions
of Deployments being rolled out. Keep in mind that PDB’s will not
protect the application against involuntary disruptions such as a
failure of the node operating system or loss of network connectivity.
For more information please refer to the
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/configure-pdb/[Specifying
a Disruption Budget for your Application] in Kubernetes documentation.

=== References

* KubeCon Europe 2019 Session -
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vw9GmSeomFg[Ready? A Deep Dive into Pod
Readiness Gates for Service Health]
* Book -
https://www.amazon.com/Kubernetes-Action-Marko-Luksa/dp/1617293725/[Kubernetes
in Action]
* AWS Blog -
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/containers/how-to-rapidly-scale-your-application-with-alb-on-eks-without-losing-traffic/[How
to rapidly scale your application with ALB on EKS (without losing
traffic)]

=== Appendix

[[lb-pod-create,lb-pod-create.title]]
==== Pod Creation

It is imperative to understand what is the sequence of events in a
scenario where a Pod is deployed and then it becomes healthy/ready to
receive and process client requests. Let’s talk about the sequence of
events.

[arabic]
. A Pod is created on the Kubernetes control plane (i.e. by a kubectl
command, or Deployment update, or scaling action).
. `+kube-scheduler+` assigns the Pod to a node in the cluster.
. The kubelet process running on the assigned node receives the update
(via `+watch+`) and communicates with the container runtime to start the
containers defined in the Pod spec.
. When the containers starts running, the kubelet updates the
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#pod-conditions[Pod
condition] as `+Ready+` in the Pod object in the Kubernetes API.
. The
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/components/#kube-controller-manager[EndpointSlice
Controller] receives the Pod condition update (via `+watch+`) and adds
the Pod IP/Port as a new endpoint to the
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices/[EndpointSlice]
object (list of Pod IPs) of the respective Kubernetes Service.
. https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/components/#kube-proxy[kube-proxy]
process on each node receives the update (via `+watch+`) on the
EndpointSlice object and then updates the
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iptables[iptables] rules on each node,
with the new Pod IP/port.

[[lb-pod-delete,lb-pod-delete.title]]
==== Pod Deletion

Just like Pod creation, it is imperative to understand what is the
sequence of events during Pod deletion. Let’ s talk about the sequence
of events.

[arabic]
. A Pod deletion request is sent to the Kubernetes API server (i.e. by a
`+kubectl+` command, or Deployment update, or scaling action).
. Kubernetes API server
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#pod-termination[starts
a grace period], which is 30 seconds by default, by setting the
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/garbage-collection/#foreground-deletion[deletionTimestamp]
field in the Pod object. (Grace period can be configured in Pod spec
through `+terminationGracePeriodSeconds+`)
. The `+kubelet+` process running on the node receives the update (via
watch) on the Pod object and sends a
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signal_(IPC)#SIGTERM[SIGTERM] signal to
process identifier 1 (PID 1) inside each container in that Pod. It then
watches the `+terminationGracePeriodSeconds+`.
. The
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/components/#kube-controller-manager[EndpointSlice
Controller] also receives the update (via `+watch+`) from Step 2 and
sets the endpoint condition to "`terminating`" in the
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices/#conditions[EndpointSlice]
object (list of Pod IPs) of the respective Kubernetes Service.
. https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/components/#kube-proxy[kube-proxy]
process on each node receives the update (via `+watch+`) on the
EndpointSlice object then
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iptables[iptables] rules on each node get
updated by the kube-proxy to stop forwarding clients requests to the
Pod.
. When the `+terminationGracePeriodSeconds+` expires then the
`+kubelet+` sends
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signal_(IPC)#SIGKILL[SIGKILL] signal to
the parent process of each container in the Pod and forcibly terminates
them.
. https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/components/#kube-controller-manager[TheEndpointSlice
Controller] removes the endpoint from the
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices/#conditions[EndpointSlice]
object.
. API server deletes the Pod object.
