latest/bpg/reliability/index.adoc, before:

//!!NODE_ROOT <chapter>
[[reliability,reliability.title]]
= Amazon EKS Best Practices Guide for Reliability
:doctype: book
:sectnums:
:toc: left
:icons: font
:experimental:
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
:sourcedir: .
:info_doctype: chapter
:info_title: Best Practices for Reliability
:info_abstract: Best Practices for Reliability
:info_titleabbrev: Reliability
:imagesdir: images/reliability/


This section provides guidance about making workloads running on EKS
resilient and highly-available

== How to use this guide

This guide is meant for developers and architects who want to develop
and operate highly-available and fault-tolerant services in EKS. The
guide is organized into different topic areas for easier consumption.
Each topic starts with a brief overview, followed by a list of
recommendations and best practices for the reliability of your EKS
clusters.

== Introduction

The reliability best practices for EKS have been grouped under the
following topics:

* Applications
* Control Plane
* Data Plane

What makes a system reliable? If a system can function consistently and
meet demands in spite of changes in its environment over a period of
time, it can be called reliable. To achieve this, the system has to
detect failures, automatically heal itself, and have the ability to
scale based on demand.

Customers can use Kubernetes as a foundation to operate mission-critical
applications and services reliably. But aside from incorporating
container-based application design principles, running workloads
reliably also requires a reliable infrastructure. In Kubernetes,
infrastructure comprises the control plane and data plane.

EKS provides a production-grade Kubernetes control plane that is
designed to be highly-available and fault-tolerant.

In EKS, AWS is responsible for the reliability of the Kubernetes control
plane. EKS runs Kubernetes control plane across three availability zones
in an AWS Region. It automatically manages the availability and
scalability of the Kubernetes API servers and the etcd cluster.

The responsibility for the data plane’s reliability is shared between
you, the customer, and AWS. EKS offers three worker node options for deploying the Kubernetes data
plane. Fargate, which is the most managed option, handles provisioning
and scaling of the data plane. The second option, managed nodes groups,
handles provisioning, and updates of the data plane. And finally,
self-managed nodes is the least managed option for the data plane. The
more AWS-managed data plane you use, the less responsibility you have.

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/managed-node-groups.html[Managed
node groups] automate the provisioning and lifecycle management of EC2
nodes. You can use the EKS API (using EKS console, AWS API, AWS CLI,
CloudFormation, Terraform, or `eksctl`), to create, scale, and upgrade
managed nodes. Managed nodes run EKS-optimized Amazon Linux 2 EC2
instances in your account, and you can install custom software packages
by enabling SSH access. When you provision managed nodes, they run as
part of an EKS-managed Auto Scaling Group that can span multiple
Availability Zones; you control this through the subnets you provide
when creating managed nodes. EKS also automatically tags managed nodes
so they can be used with Cluster Autoscaler.

Amazon EKS follows the shared responsibility model for CVEs and security
patches on managed node groups. Because managed nodes run the Amazon
EKS-optimized AMIs, Amazon EKS is responsible for building patched
versions of these AMIs when bug fixes. However, you are responsible for
deploying these patched AMI versions to your managed node groups.

EKS also
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/update-managed-node-group.html[manages
updating the nodes] although you have to initiate the update process.
The process of
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/managed-node-update-behavior.html[updating
managed node] is explained in the EKS documentation.

If you run self-managed nodes, you can use
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/eks-optimized-ami.html[Amazon
EKS-optimized Linux AMI] to create worker nodes. You are responsible for
patching and upgrading the AMI and the nodes. It is a best practice to
use `eksctl`, CloudFormation, or infrastructure as code tools to
provision self-managed nodes because this will make it easy for you to
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/update-workers.html[upgrade
self-managed nodes]. Consider
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/migrate-stack.html[migrating
to new nodes] when updating worker nodes because the migration process
*taints* the old node group as `NoSchedule` and *drains* the nodes
after a new stack is ready to accept the existing pod workload. However,
you can also perform an
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/update-stack.html[in-place
upgrade of self-managed nodes].

.Shared Responsibility Model - Fargate
image::SRM-Fargate.jpeg[Shared Responsibility Model - Fargate]

.Shared Responsibility Model - MNG
image::SRM-MNG.jpeg[Shared Responsibility Model - MNG]

This guide includes a set of recommendations that you can use to improve
the reliability of your EKS data plane, Kubernetes core components, and
your applications.

== Feedback

This guide is being released on GitHub to collect direct feedback and
suggestions from the broader EKS/Kubernetes community. If you have a
best practice that you feel we ought to include in the guide, please
file an issue or submit a PR in the GitHub repository. We intend to
update the guide periodically as new features are added to the service
or when a new best practice evolves.



include::application.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::controlplane.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::dataplane.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Commit message:

update to add references to EKS Auto Mode

latest/bpg/reliability/index.adoc, after:

//!!NODE_ROOT <chapter>
[[reliability,reliability.title]]
= Amazon EKS Best Practices Guide for Reliability
:doctype: book
:sectnums:
:toc: left
:icons: font
:experimental:
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
:sourcedir: .
:info_doctype: chapter
:info_title: Best Practices for Reliability
:info_abstract: Best Practices for Reliability
:info_titleabbrev: Reliability
:imagesdir: images/reliability/


This section provides guidance about making workloads running on EKS
resilient and highly-available

== How to use this guide

This guide is meant for developers and architects who want to develop
and operate highly-available and fault-tolerant services in EKS. The
guide is organized into different topic areas for easier consumption.
Each topic starts with a brief overview, followed by a list of
recommendations and best practices for the reliability of your EKS
clusters.

== Introduction

The reliability best practices for EKS have been grouped under the
following topics:

* Applications
* Control Plane
* Data Plane

What makes a system reliable? If a system can function consistently and
meet demands in spite of changes in its environment over a period of
time, it can be called reliable. To achieve this, the system has to
detect failures, automatically heal itself, and have the ability to
scale based on demand.

Customers can use Kubernetes as a foundation to operate mission-critical
applications and services reliably. But aside from incorporating
container-based application design principles, running workloads
reliably also requires a reliable infrastructure. In Kubernetes,
infrastructure comprises the control plane and data plane.

EKS provides a production-grade Kubernetes control plane that is
designed to be highly-available and fault-tolerant.

In EKS, AWS is responsible for the reliability of the Kubernetes control
plane. EKS runs Kubernetes control plane across three availability zones
in an AWS Region. It automatically manages the availability and
scalability of the Kubernetes API servers and the etcd cluster.

The responsibility for the data plane’s reliability is shared between
you, the customer, and AWS. EKS offers four worker node options for deploying the Kubernetes data
plane. 

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/automode.html[EKS Auto Mode], which is 
the most managed option, handles provisioning, scaling and updates of the data plane 
along with providing managed Compute, Networking, and Storage capabilities. Auto 
Mode AMIs are released frequently and clusters are updated to the latest AMI 
automatically to deploy CVE fixes and security patches. You have the ability to control
when this occurs by configuring https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/create-node-pool.html#_disruption[disruption controls]
on your Auto Mode NodePools.

Fargate handles provisioning and scaling of the data 
plane by running one Pod per Node. The third option, managed nodes groups,
handles provisioning, and updates of the data plane. And finally,
self-managed nodes is the least managed option for the data plane. The
more AWS-managed data plane you use, the less responsibility you have.

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/managed-node-groups.html[Managed
node groups] automate the provisioning and lifecycle management of EC2
nodes. You can use the EKS API (using EKS console, AWS API, AWS CLI,
CloudFormation, Terraform, or `eksctl`), to create, scale, and upgrade
managed nodes. Managed nodes run EKS-optimized Amazon Linux 2 EC2
instances in your account, and you can install custom software packages
by enabling SSH access. When you provision managed nodes, they run as
part of an EKS-managed Auto Scaling Group that can span multiple
Availability Zones; you control this through the subnets you provide
when creating managed nodes. EKS also automatically tags managed nodes
so they can be used with Cluster Autoscaler.

Amazon EKS follows the shared responsibility model for CVEs and security
patches on managed node groups. Because managed nodes run the Amazon
EKS-optimized AMIs, Amazon EKS is responsible for building patched
versions of these AMIs when bug fixes. However, you are responsible for
deploying these patched AMI versions to your managed node groups.

EKS also
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/update-managed-node-group.html[manages
updating the nodes] although you have to initiate the update process.
The process of
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/managed-node-update-behavior.html[updating
managed node] is explained in the EKS documentation.

If you run self-managed nodes, you can use
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/eks-optimized-ami.html[Amazon
EKS-optimized Linux AMI] to create worker nodes. You are responsible for
patching and upgrading the AMI and the nodes. It is a best practice to
use `eksctl`, CloudFormation, or infrastructure as code tools to
provision self-managed nodes because this will make it easy for you to
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/update-workers.html[upgrade
self-managed nodes]. Consider
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/migrate-stack.html[migrating
to new nodes] when updating worker nodes because the migration process
*taints* the old node group as `NoSchedule` and *drains* the nodes
after a new stack is ready to accept the existing pod workload. However,
you can also perform an
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/update-stack.html[in-place
upgrade of self-managed nodes].

.Shared Responsibility Model - Fargate
image::SRM-Fargate.jpeg[Shared Responsibility Model - Fargate]

.Shared Responsibility Model - MNG
image::SRM-MNG.jpeg[Shared Responsibility Model - MNG]

This guide includes a set of recommendations that you can use to improve
the reliability of your EKS data plane, Kubernetes core components, and
your applications.

== Feedback

This guide is being released on GitHub to collect direct feedback and
suggestions from the broader EKS/Kubernetes community. If you have a
best practice that you feel we ought to include in the guide, please
file an issue or submit a PR in the GitHub repository. We intend to
update the guide periodically as new features are added to the service
or when a new best practice evolves.



include::application.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::controlplane.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::dataplane.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
